GENERAL INTRODUCTION.

THE TEXT, MSS„ SCHOLIASTS, EDITIONS.

AN editor whose knowledge of MSS. is almost entirely at
second-hand owes some apology, at least to himself, for dis-
cussing questions of text3 but he can hardly avoid such
discussion. Even if he chooses an existing text as his guide
throughout, he must by his choice virtually take a side in many
intricate questions, and he does so in the way which is the least
instructive to his reader, by appearing to settle without dis-
cussion questions which are really open. Happily the text of
Horace is one in which, if some points must always remain in
uncertainty‚ the uncertainty is of a very bearable kind. The
worst result of a bad judgment will usually be only to prefer
the less probable of two readings, either of which has much to
say for itself‚ makes good sense, and has been supported by
great scholars.

It will be seen that the MSS. of Horace, though very numer-
ous, are not very ancient. There are none, like the uncial MSS.

· of Virgil, of palmary authority. There are a considerable

 

number which are placed between the end of the 9th and 10th
centuries ; only one now extant which belongs undoubtedly to
the 9th. In addition to these, we have the testimony of Cru-
quius (see below), at whatever value it is to be rated, to the
readings of a MS. probably some two centuries earlier; and we
have Scholia which are generally believed to date, at least in
their original form⁷ from the 3rd to the 5th century.
Occasionally, where doubt hangs over the form of some salient
expression in Horace, we find light thrown upon it by more or
less certain imitations of it in Ovid, or in the later Roman poets.

